## Set-back - going forward with Maths and ML

So some sad news, I've had to defer my place on a Cyber Defence course by a year to focus on an important project at work. So I'm going to spend the time between courses taking a step back and learning the fundamentals of AI and data science.

I'm using [this roadmap]('https://roadmap.sh/ai-data-scientist') and its recommendations, but I also want to get started building a project. And I'll share my progress here. It recommends [Mathematics for Machine Learning]('https://mml-book.github.io/book/mml-book.pdf') as the first book to read. It's chonky but from reading just the first chapter, it's a breath of fresh air and directed at people like me.

I'm planning to learn a bit and do a project - I'll lose my mind if I just read too much. For that, I'm going to use Machine Learning Mastery by Jason Brownlee.

# The three concepts
- **data** is the core of ML which is designed to draw out patterns from the data, e.g. a large library of books.
- **models** learn from data, if performance improves. It's typically used to describe a process for generating data - a good model would predict what would happen in the real world through a simulation. *We should choose, therefore, an appropriate model.*
- **learning** a way to automatically find patterns and structure in data by optimisation.

# What is an algorithm?
- **predictor** is a system that makes predictions based on input data
- **training** a system that adapts some internal parameters of the predictor so it performs well on future unseen input data
- **we represent data as vectors** which can be seen as (1) *Computer Science* - an array of numbers, (2) *Physical* - an arrow with direction and magnitude and (3) *Mathematical* an object that obeys addition and scaling.

# Linear Algebra
## Vectors
- **vectors** are special objects that can be added and multiplied by scalars to produce another object of the same kind, e.g. geometric, polynomials, audio signals, elements of $\mathbb{R}^n$ (tuples of $n$ real numbers).
- they are ordered lists of numbers from a computer science perspective.
- first think about an error inside a coordinate system, rooted at the origin, then translate it over to the list of numbers (CS view)
- **scaler** or scaling a vector is multiplying each of its components by that factor.
$$
2 \begin{bmatrix} \textcolor{green}{x} \\ \textcolor{red}{y} \end{bmatrix}
$$

# Helpful resources
- [3Blue1Brown, Vectors]('https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fNk_zzaMoSs')